American Software Testing Qualifications Board
ASTQB Certified Tester 
Testing with Generative AI v1.0 
Sample Exam Questions

- 2 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
46 Points Possible : Passing Grade = 30 Points
GenAI – Sample Exam
1.  (1 pt) Which of the following uses deep learning techniques to 
create new content?
a. Symbolic AI
b. Classical machine learning
c. Deep learning
d. Generative AI
2.  (1 pt) You have used the same prompt multiple times, but you 
have received different responses for the LLM. Why is this 
happening?
a. Because the prompt is incorrect
b. Because LLMs have non-deterministic behavior
c. Because the training data was faulty
d. Because LLMs are trained to always vary the response

- 3 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
3.  (1 pt) How is tokenization related to embeddings?
a. Tokens are a numeric representation of how a given word is 
embedded into the model
b. Tokens represent characters, subwords, or words, and embeddings 
capture the semantic, syntactic, and contextual relationship of the 
tokens
c. Embeddings describe the text component in such a way that it can be 
tokenized for use within the model
d. Embeddings identify the non-deterministic behavior of a word 
component, which is then used to determine the positioning of its 
token using a vector to represent its position
4.  (1 pt) You need an LLM that will help with decision-making 
based on a process similar to human logic. Which type of LLM 
should you use?
a. Foundation LLM
b. Instruction-tuned LLM
c. Reasoning LLM
d. Ad-hoc LLM
5.  (1 pt) Which of the following is an advantage of using an LLM 
augmented with vision-language models for developing test 
cases?
a. There is no advantage because this type of model is used primarily 
for military applications
b. It can create test cases that can include text and visual cues
c. It can edit images much faster and more accurately than a human
d. It can generate executable code from wireframes and screenshots

- 4 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
6.  (1 pt) You have created test automation that will be used to test 
driver’s license applications. There is a huge amount of data 
available for this testing, but it will take too long to test with all 
of that data. How can an LLM help with this problem?
a. It can create new synthetic data that will protect private information
b. It can take the existing data and augment that with data that is 
missing according to the data rules
c. It can take the existing data and break it into smaller sets that will 
contain interesting variances
d. It can delete data that is duplicated and replace it with new data
7. (1 pt) Your organization is developing a test management tool 
that will use AI to generate, classify, and store test cases based 
on requirements, general testing knowledge, and previous 
issues found. Which of the following interaction models would 
be best to use?
a. Chatbots talking to the LLM
b. Chatbots talking to other chatbots that have been trained on your 
system
c. APIs of the LLM to allow the test task information to pass into and out 
of the LLM
d. APIs of the LLM to pass the test case information into the LLM to be 
stored there

- 5 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
8.  (1 pt) Which of the following are the six components of an 
effective prompt?
a. Prompt Chain, Persona, Instruction, Assumptions, Constraints, 
Output Format
b. Role, Bias, Context, Instruction, Input Data, Constraints, Output Data
c. Persona, Background, Instruction, Input Data, Output Data, 
Assumptions
d. Role, Context, Instruction, Input Data, Constraints, Output Format
9.  (1 pt) You have provided a structured prompt to a GenAI model 
regarding the creation of test cases. You have specified that you 
want to receive test cases in the following format:  
• Description of test 
• Reference to source 
• Steps to complete 
• Expected outcome  
This is an example of what component of a structured prompt?
a. Role
b. Context
c. Instruction
d. Output format

- 6 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
10. (1 pt) If you have a test process with complex tasks and you will 
need to check intermediate results before proceeding, which 
prompting technique is the most appropriate?
a. Prompt chaining
b. Few-shot prompting
c. Zero-shot prompting
d. Meta prompting
11.  (1 pt) Which of the following is true regarding a user prompt for 
an LLM?
a. It is set once at the start of the conversation
b. It is usually set by the developer 
c. It usually changes with each interaction
d. It is user-independent, so the response will be consistent regardless 
of how the user words the prompt

- 7 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
12. (2 pts) You are working on a replacement of an e-commerce 
system. You have been given a large set of test conditions to 
test. There is not adequate time to test all the conditions. You 
have a testing-trained LLM that you can use. How can you best 
use it in this situation?
a. The LLM can create an estimate for how long testing will take based 
on similar test conditions. This schedule can then be incorporated 
into the overall project schedule to allow adequate time for testing.
b. The LLM can be fed information regarding previous defects, end-
user requirements, and payment regulations to let it determine 
the relative risk of all the test conditions. This can then be used to 
prioritize the testing.
c. The LLM can generate and execute all the test cases based on the test 
conditions, which will save significant time.
d. The LLM can generate test data to cover every possible purchasing 
scenario. This will ensure testing will not miss any corner cases, and 
that will help the schedule by eliminating any testing escapes. 
13. (2 pts) You have been given requirements in the form of 
wireframes of the GUI and user stories. You want to use these to 
create the test conditions for a set of tests. How should you use 
prompts to evaluate the inputs and create the test conditions?
a. Apply multimodal prompts
b. Set well-defined system parameters to define the graphics to be used
c. Apply prompt chaining
d. Use meta prompting so the prompts can be continuously refined 

- 8 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
14. (2 pts) You have been testing versions of the same software 
over several years. Rather than the quality improving, it seems 
to just stay the same, with the same high number of defects 
being caught during testing for each release. How could AI help 
with this problem?
a. It could analyze test failures and prioritize the tests that failed last 
time so they are executed first for each new release.
b. It could use meta prompting to review each test case to determine if 
it is an effective test. Ineffective tests could then be removed from the 
overall test suite.
c. It could create large sets of test data that are used across releases of 
the product to ensure that data variance is not causing the repeated 
failures.
d. It could conduct root cause analysis over all the defects found across 
releases to determine the common causes. This information could 
then be used to improve development and analysis processes.

- 9 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
15.  (2 pts) You are working on a critical project that is under the 
scrutiny of senior management. As a result, simple and clear 
reporting of testing progress is paramount. You are using the 
test reporting capabilities of your test management system, 
but any analysis of the issues and trends has to be done 
manually by you. How could AI help with this situation?
a. AI could analyze all the open defects and verify that the prioritization 
is correct based on keywords in the defect report.
b. AI could track which test cases are finding the most defects, so you 
could highlight those on your reports.
c. AI could analyze the defect and test case execution information and 
provide trending information and root cause analysis mapped to the 
use cases for the software.
d. AI would automatically email the existing dashboards to the 
pertinent executives to ensure they always have the latest 
information available.  For example, defect reports would go to the 
development management, defect reports to the test management, 
etc.
16. (2 pts) You are working on testing a new system. The 
requirements are high-level and lack detail. What prompting 
technique should you use to get started to get some ideas for 
how to progress with test case generation?
a. Prompt chaining
b. Few-shot prompting
c. Meta prompting
d. Zero-shot prompting

- 10 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
17. (1 pt) You are using GenAI to create test cases for you for a 
heavily rules-based application. You have requested that it use 
decision tables to build the test cases. Which metric would be 
the best one to use to determine how well it has done with this 
request?
a. Accuracy
b. Recall
c. Diversity
d. Time Efficiency
18. (1 pt) You have been iteratively modifying your prompt for GenAI 
test case creation. You are still getting the same types of issues 
with the output, even though you keep refining the prompts 
and adding more information. What technique can you employ 
to use those issues to better evaluate and refine the prompts?
a. Iterative prompt modification
b. A/B testing of prompts
c. Output analysis
d. Adjusting prompt specificity
19. (1 pt) Which of the following is a result of a reasoning error?
a. An output that favors certain types of information, approaches, or 
assumptions
b. An output that is based on misinterpretations of logical structures
c. An output that appears plausible but is factually incorrect or 
irrelevant
d. An output that is only partially complete

- 11 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
20. (2 pts) You are using GenAI to develop a test plan. You have fed 
it the requirements, high-level project plan, schedules, and 
tester profiles. Despite your instructions, when you ask it to 
generate the test schedule, it creates a new team member and 
puts them on the schedule to make the testing effort fit the 
project timeline. What is the problem, and what should you do 
about it?
a. This is likely a bias problem. You should give it a wider variety of 
requirements for similar systems so it generates a larger scope of 
tests.
b. This is likely a hallucination. You should instruct the AI model that 
this is incorrect so it learns.
c. This is likely a reasoning error. You should run the test cases against 
the test objects to verify if the expected results are valid.
d. This is likely a temperature problem. You should lower the 
temperature to allow a more specific focus. 
21. (1 pt) In what way does comparing results across several 
different models help reduce hallucinations, reasoning errors, 
and biases?
a. You can combine the results into a superset of data, which will reduce 
the errors in the data
b. You can select the data that occurs with the highest frequency and 
know that it is the most accurate
c. You can compare different outputs from the same prompts to detect 
output errors and reliability
d. You can get the results faster by using multiple models concurrently

- 12 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
22. (1 pt) How does setting a random seed value help improve 
reproducibility in LLM outputs?
a. By setting a lower seed value, the temperature setting is 
automatically increased, which narrows the probability distribution
b. By setting a higher seed value, more seeds are allowed to be used, 
which will promote larger output sets from the LLM, which can then 
be used to extract consistent data, which improves reproducibility
c. By setting a variable seed value, the random sequence values are 
increased, which results in a larger set of data, which is easier to 
recreate
d. By setting a seed value, the random number generator has the same 
starting point, which will ensure the same pseudo-random sequence 
is used, which improves reproducibility 
23. (1 pt) If you have a GenAI tool that is processing sensitive 
customer data, what must you ensure?
a. It cannot store the data in an unencrypted form because it will be 
readable by anyone
b. It cannot store the data where it might be accessed by an 
unauthorized user, including another GenAI tool
c. It cannot modify and then restore the data because it will be 
incorrect and might be misleading for other users
d. It cannot access any sensitive data for any use

- 13 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
24.  (1 pt) You’ve been working on an application that processes 
employee leave requests. The data you are using contains the 
birth date of the employee, but you have replaced all the birth 
dates with a default date of 1/1/89. You are using GenAI within 
your company’s databases to build new test data. You have now 
discovered that the test data contains birthdates again, and 
they are the real dates. This is an example of what type of data 
privacy issue?
a. Lack of control over data usage
b. Vulnerability to security attacks
c. Evidence of a malicious introduction of false data
d. Unintentional data exposure 
25.  (1 pt) What type of attack vector is being used when the results 
of AI-generated data are rated incorrectly, intentionally?
a. Data exfiltration
b. Request manipulation
c. Data poisoning
d. Malicious code generation
26. (1 pt) What is the purpose of data anonymization?
a. To only use and process the data that is legally permitted and use 
only the smallest amount needed
b. To mask or replace any private information with non-identifiable 
data
c. To implement strong encryption and strictly control data access
d. To ensure everyone is trained in the proper handling of data and is 
minimizing access

- 14 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
27. (1 pt) Which of the following GenAI activities takes about as 
much power as charging a smartphone?
a. Generating a letter to your bank
b. Creating “business” penguin pictures for a presentation
c. Creating only one penguin image
d. Generating a financial year summary report 
28. (1 pt) Which of the following establishes a legal framework 
addressing AI risks and classifying applications by risk level?
a. ISO/IEC 42001:2023
b. ISO/IEC 23053:2022
c. EU AI Act
d. NIST AI Risk Management Framework
29. (1 pt) Which part of the architecture in an LLM-powered test 
infrastructure is responsible for integrating multiple data 
sources?
a. The front-end
b. The LLM itself
c. The back-end
d. The data controller 

- 15 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
30. (1 pt) What are the two steps in RAG processing?
a. Input / Retrieval
b. Processing / Output
c. Access / Processing
d. Retrieval / Generation
31. (1 pt) What does “orchestration” mean regarding LLM-powered 
agents?
a. It is when several agents work together in a coordinated manner to 
more efficiently solve complex problems
b. It is when more than three LLM-powered agents work independently 
to generate outputs that are then reviewed by another agent for 
accuracy and post-processing
c. It is when RAG is an integral part of an LLM-powered test 
infrastructure
d. It is a term for background processing that uses a combination of 
autonomous and semi-autonomous agents 
32. (1 pt) How can overfitting compromise your model during fine-
tuning?
a. It can make the LLM too generalized to be applicable and efficient
b. It can introduce hallucinations and biases
c. It can make the model unable or inaccurate when processing data 
that is new to it
d. It can create a lack of transparency regarding LLM decision-making 

- 16 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
33.  (1 pt) Which of the following LLM deployment types is most 
concerned with data privacy?
a. Chatbots
b. Commercial testing tools with AI components
c. In-house developed commercial test tools with AI components
d. Data privacy is a critical concern for all of these deployment types
34.  (1 pt) How is the risk of using copyrighted data without proper 
authorization categorized when using shadow AI?
a. Information security weakness
b. Data privacy weakness
c. Compliance issues
d. Vague intellectual property
35.  (1 pt) Why is high-quality input data important when 
implementing an LLM-powered testing approach?
a. It will be faster with good data that produces fewer errors
b. It will produce reliable results
c. It will allow the largest possible data set to be built
d. It will ensure access is protected and limited to only the correct users 

- 17 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
36.  (1 pt) You are working to convince your manager that a GenAI 
tool would be helpful in generating test reports. One of his 
issues is that he feels he could hire interns to write the test 
reports, and that would be faster than incorporating a new 
tool. You are sure that it will be able to write the reports faster 
and more accurately, freeing critical testing time. 
 
What is an important capability of the LLM that you should 
evaluate to be sure it will prove you right?
a. Model performance
b. Fine-tuning potential
c. Direct cost
d. Community and support
37.  (1 pt) What is the first key phase when adopting GenAI into the 
test organization?
a. Discovery
b. Initiation and Training
c. Usage Definition
d. Exploitation and Iteration

- 18 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
38.  (1 pt) Why does a tester need to understand “prompt 
engineering” in order to work effectively with GenAI?
a. Because they will have a better grasp of the internal layers of the 
neural network
b. Because they need to understand what user prompts will need to be 
tested and the relative risk of each
c. Because they will be asked to generate new user prompts based on 
the AI-designed UI
d. Because they will need to design and refine the input prompts to 
guide the LLM
39.  (1 pt) When conducting GenAI training meetings with the 
testing team, what is an important learning method?
a. Discussing challenges and their resolutions
b. Highlighting erroneous prompts used within the team
c. Processing AI outputs to better analyze manual testing gaps
d. Promoting the use of AI methods and nominating an “AI champion of 
the week”
40.  (1 pt) Who is usually responsible for ensuring that test teams 
maintain both traditional testing competencies and AI literacy?
a. Each tester
b. The senior testers
c. The test manager
d. The AI master