American Software Testing Qualifications Board
ASTQB Certified Tester 
Testing with Generative AI v1.0 
Sample Exam Answers

- 2 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
46 Points Possible : Passing Grade = 30 Points
GenAI – Sample Exam
1.  (1 pt) Which of the following uses deep learning techniques to 
create new content?
a. Symbolic AI
b. Classical machine learning
c. Deep learning
d. Generative AI
 
D is correct. Generative AI uses deep learning techniques to create 
new data by learning and mimicking patterns from the training data. 
(GenAI-1.1.1 (K1) Recall different types of AI: symbolic AI, classical 
machine learning, deep learning, and generative AI) 
2.  (1 pt) You have used the same prompt multiple times, but you 
have received different responses for the LLM. Why is this 
happening?
a. Because the prompt is incorrect
b. Because LLMs have non-deterministic behavior
c. Because the training data was faulty
d. Because LLMs are trained to always vary the response
 
B is correct. LLMs exhibit non-deterministic behavior due to the 
probabilistic nature of their inference mechanisms. (GenAI-1.1.2 (K2) 
Explain the basics of generative AI and large language models) 

- 3 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
3.  (1 pt) How is tokenization related to embeddings?
a. Tokens are a numeric representation of how a given word is 
embedded into the model
b. Tokens represent characters, subwords, or words, and embeddings 
capture the semantic, syntactic, and contextual relationship of the 
tokens
c. Embeddings describe the text component in such a way that it can be 
tokenized for use within the model
d. Embeddings identify the non-deterministic behavior of a word 
component, which is then used to determine the positioning of its 
token using a vector to represent its position
 
B is correct. Because the syllabus says so. (GenAI-1.1.2 (K2) Explain the 
basics of generative AI and large language models) 
4.  (1 pt) You need an LLM that will help with decision-making 
based on a process similar to human logic. Which type of LLM 
should you use?
a. Foundation LLM
b. Instruction-tuned LLM
c. Reasoning LLM
d. Ad-hoc LLM
 
C is correct. You need a reasoning LLM because that training method is 
designed to emulate human-like reasoning responses. (GenAI-1.1.3 (K2) 
Distinguish between foundation, instruction-tuned and reasoning LLMs) 

- 4 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
5.  (1 pt) Which of the following is an advantage of using an LLM 
augmented with vision-language models for developing test 
cases?
a. There is no advantage because this type of model is used primarily 
for military applications
b. It can create test cases that can include text and visual cues
c. It can edit images much faster and more accurately than a human
d. It can generate executable code from wireframes and screenshots
 
B is correct. It can create test cases that include textual data and 
visual cues, which increases the overall test coverage. (GenAI-1.1.4 
(K2) Summarize the basic principles of multimodal LLMs and vision-
language models) 
6.  (1 pt) You have created test automation that will be used to test 
driver’s license applications. There is a huge amount of data 
available for this testing, but it will take too long to test with all 
of that data. How can an LLM help with this problem?
a. It can create new synthetic data that will protect private information
b. It can take the existing data and augment that with data that is 
missing according to the data rules
c. It can take the existing data and break it into smaller sets that will 
contain interesting variances
d. It can delete data that is duplicated and replace it with new data
 
C is correct. It can look at the existing data, analyze it, and break it 
into smaller sets that will contain representative and interesting data. 
(GenAI-1.2.1(K2) Give examples of key LLM capabilities for test tasks) 

- 5 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
7. (1 pt) Your organization is developing a test management tool 
that will use AI to generate, classify, and store test cases based 
on requirements, general testing knowledge, and previous 
issues found. Which of the following interaction models would 
be best to use?
a. Chatbots talking to the LLM
b. Chatbots talking to other chatbots that have been trained on your 
system
c. APIs of the LLM to allow the test task information to pass into and out 
of the LLM
d. APIs of the LLM to pass the test case information into the LLM to be 
stored there
 
C is correct. Using the APIs of the LLM will allow maximum usage of 
the LLM by passing the necessary data to and from it. D doesn’t make 
sense because the test case information would be stored in the test 
management system, not in the LLM. A and B are incorrect because 
chatbots would not be the most efficient or flexible access. (GenAI-1.2.2 
(K2) Compare interaction models when using GenAI for software 
testing) 

- 6 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
8.  (1 pt) Which of the following are the six components of an 
effective prompt?
a. Prompt Chain, Persona, Instruction, Assumptions, Constraints, 
Output Format
b. Role, Bias, Context, Instruction, Input Data, Constraints, Output Data
c. Persona, Background, Instruction, Input Data, Output Data, 
Assumptions
d. Role, Context, Instruction, Input Data, Constraints, Output Format
 
D is correct. These are the components. (GenAI-2.1.1 (K2) Give examples 
of the structure of prompts used in generative AI for software testing) 
9.  (1 pt) You have provided a structured prompt to a GenAI model 
regarding the creation of test cases. You have specified that you 
want to receive test cases in the following format:  
• Description of test 
• Reference to source 
• Steps to complete 
• Expected outcome  
This is an example of what component of a structured prompt?
a. Role
b. Context
c. Instruction
d. Output format
 
D is correct. This is the output format that you are specifying. 
(GenAI-2.1.1 (K2) Give examples of the structure of prompts used in 
generative AI for software testing) 

- 7 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
10. (1 pt) If you have a test process with complex tasks and you will 
need to check intermediate results before proceeding, which 
prompting technique is the most appropriate?
a. Prompt chaining
b. Few-shot prompting
c. Zero-shot prompting
d. Meta prompting
 
A is correct. Prompt chaining allows the next prompt to be tuned based 
on the results of the preceding step. (GenAI-2.1.2 (K2) Differentiate core 
prompting techniques for software testing) 
11.  (1 pt) Which of the following is true regarding a user prompt for 
an LLM?
a. It is set once at the start of the conversation
b. It is usually set by the developer 
c. It usually changes with each interaction
d. It is user-independent, so the response will be consistent regardless 
of how the user words the prompt
 
C is correct. The user prompt is the interaction with the system, and this 
usually changes with each interaction. A and B are correct for system 
prompts. (GenAI-2.1.3 (K2) Distinguish between system prompts and 
user prompts) 

- 8 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
12. (2 pts) You are working on a replacement of an e-commerce 
system. You have been given a large set of test conditions to 
test. There is not adequate time to test all the conditions. You 
have a testing-trained LLM that you can use. How can you best 
use it in this situation?
a. The LLM can create an estimate for how long testing will take based 
on similar test conditions. This schedule can then be incorporated 
into the overall project schedule to allow adequate time for testing.
b. The LLM can be fed information regarding previous defects, end-
user requirements, and payment regulations to let it determine 
the relative risk of all the test conditions. This can then be used to 
prioritize the testing.
c. The LLM can generate and execute all the test cases based on the test 
conditions, which will save significant time.
d. The LLM can generate test data to cover every possible purchasing 
scenario. This will ensure testing will not miss any corner cases, and 
that will help the schedule by eliminating any testing escapes.
 
B is correct. Since there isn’t enough time, the tests will have to be 
prioritized and executed in priority order. When time runs out, at least 
the most important tests will have been executed. A is not correct 
because there’s already not enough time – making a schedule proving 
that won’t help. C is not correct. The LLM could generate the test cases, 
but it won’t know how to execute them. It might be able to develop 
test automation from the generated test cases, but that’s not likely to 
shorten the time required for testing. D is not correct because it will 
make testing take longer. (GenAI-2.2.1 (K3) Apply generative AI to test 
analysis tasks) 

- 9 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
13. (2 pts) You have been given requirements in the form of 
wireframes of the GUI and user stories. You want to use these to 
create the test conditions for a set of tests. How should you use 
prompts to evaluate the inputs and create the test conditions?
a. Apply multimodal prompts
b. Set well-defined system parameters to define the graphics to be used
c. Apply prompt chaining
d. Use meta prompting so the prompts can be continuously refined
 
A is correct. In this case, you will definitely need multimodal prompts 
because the data you are providing is both graphics and text. B is 
not correct because this is not something that is defined in system 
parameters. C is not correct because, also, prompt chaining may be 
useful; you first need to get the information into the system via A. 
D is not correct because it’s not a matter of generating additional 
prompts. (GenAI-2.2.2 (K3) Apply generative AI to test design and test 
implementation tasks) 

- 10 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
14. (2 pts) You have been testing versions of the same software 
over several years. Rather than the quality improving, it seems 
to just stay the same, with the same high number of defects 
being caught during testing for each release. How could AI help 
with this problem?
a. It could analyze test failures and prioritize the tests that failed last 
time so they are executed first for each new release.
b. It could use meta prompting to review each test case to determine if 
it is an effective test. Ineffective tests could then be removed from the 
overall test suite.
c. It could create large sets of test data that are used across releases of 
the product to ensure that data variance is not causing the repeated 
failures.
d. It could conduct root cause analysis over all the defects found across 
releases to determine the common causes. This information could 
then be used to improve development and analysis processes.
 
D is correct. We don’t know what’s causing these issues, and we 
are catching them in testing, but they shouldn’t be occurring in the 
first place. Root cause analysis will tell us what is breaking and why. 
(GenAI-2.2.3 (K3) Apply generative AI to automated regression testing) 

- 11 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
15.  (2 pts) You are working on a critical project that is under the 
scrutiny of senior management. As a result, simple and clear 
reporting of testing progress is paramount. You are using the 
test reporting capabilities of your test management system, 
but any analysis of the issues and trends has to be done 
manually by you. How could AI help with this situation?
a. AI could analyze all the open defects and verify that the prioritization 
is correct based on keywords in the defect report.
b. AI could track which test cases are finding the most defects, so you 
could highlight those on your reports.
c. AI could analyze the defect and test case execution information and 
provide trending information and root cause analysis mapped to the 
use cases for the software.
d. AI would automatically email the existing dashboards to the 
pertinent executives to ensure they always have the latest 
information available.  For example, defect reports would go to the 
development management, defect reports to the test management, 
etc.
 
C is correct. AI can do analysis of the large amount of information to 
pull out the necessary trending and root cause analysis to provide more 
information other than just the numbers. By mapping the findings to 
the use cases, the importance of the failures would be easier to assess. 
A would be useful, but doesn’t address the problem in the question. B 
might be useful, but it would only give part of the picture because you 
wouldn’t know if those defects mattered. D is not correct because that 
would be annoying and this information is readily available already. 
(GenAI-2.2.4 (K3) Apply generative AI to test control and monitoring 
tasks) 

- 12 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
16. (2 pts) You are working on testing a new system. The 
requirements are high-level and lack detail. What prompting 
technique should you use to get started to get some ideas for 
how to progress with test case generation?
a. Prompt chaining
b. Few-shot prompting
c. Meta prompting
d. Zero-shot prompting
 
C is correct. In this case meta prompting is a good starting point. You 
have the general description of what the software should do and what 
a test case should accomplish, so those inputs can be used. AI can then 
respond, and together you can build more test cases. (GenAI-2.2.5 (K3) 
Select and apply appropriate prompting techniques for a given context 
and test task) 
17. (1 pt) You are using GenAI to create test cases for you for a 
heavily rules-based application. You have requested that it use 
decision tables to build the test cases. Which metric would be 
the best one to use to determine how well it has done with this 
request?
a. Accuracy
b. Recall
c. Diversity
d. Time Efficiency
 
B is correct. The recall metric evaluates the completeness of the 
generated output with respect to a specific objective, in this case, using 
decision tables. (GenAI-2.3.1 (K2) Understand the metrics for evaluating 
the results of Generative AI on test tasks) 

- 13 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
18. (1 pt) You have been iteratively modifying your prompt for GenAI 
test case creation. You are still getting the same types of issues 
with the output, even though you keep refining the prompts 
and adding more information. What technique can you employ 
to use those issues to better evaluate and refine the prompts?
a. Iterative prompt modification
b. A/B testing of prompts
c. Output analysis
d. Adjusting prompt specificity
 
C is correct. At this point, you need to do some analysis on the issues 
to determine why you are seeing them occur repeatedly. (GenAI-2.3.2 
(K2) Give examples of techniques for evaluating and iteratively refining 
prompts) 
19. (1 pt) Which of the following is a result of a reasoning error?
a. An output that favors certain types of information, approaches, or 
assumptions
b. An output that is based on misinterpretations of logical structures
c. An output that appears plausible but is factually incorrect or 
irrelevant
d. An output that is only partially complete
 
B is correct. This is an example of a reasoning (GenAI-3.1.1 (K1) Recall 
the definitions of hallucinations, reasoning errors and biases in 
Generative AI systems) 

- 14 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
20. (2 pts) You are using GenAI to develop a test plan. You have fed 
it the requirements, high-level project plan, schedules, and 
tester profiles. Despite your instructions, when you ask it to 
generate the test schedule, it creates a new team member and 
puts them on the schedule to make the testing effort fit the 
project timeline. What is the problem, and what should you do 
about it?
a. This is likely a bias problem. You should give it a wider variety of 
requirements for similar systems so it generates a larger scope of 
tests.
b. This is likely a hallucination. You should instruct the AI model that 
this is incorrect so it learns.
c. This is likely a reasoning error. You should run the test cases against 
the test objects to verify if the expected results are valid.
d. This is likely a temperature problem. You should lower the 
temperature to allow a more specific focus.
 
B is correct. This is a hallucination where the AI model has created a new 
team member for you. While this might be handy, it won’t really help 
with the schedule and the AI model must be taught that this is incorrect. 
(GenAI-3.1.2 (K3) Identify hallucinations, reasoning errors and biases in 
LLM output) 

- 15 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
21. (1 pt) In what way does comparing results across several 
different models help reduce hallucinations, reasoning errors, 
and biases?
a. You can combine the results into a superset of data, which will reduce 
the errors in the data
b. You can select the data that occurs with the highest frequency and 
know that it is the most accurate
c. You can compare different outputs from the same prompts to detect 
output errors and reliability
d. You can get the results faster by using multiple models concurrently
 
C is correct. By comparing the results from different models using the 
same prompts, you can tune the prompts, compare the outputs, and 
pick the most reliable results. (GenAI-3.1.3 (K2) Summarize mitigation 
techniques for GenAI hallucinations, reasoning errors and biases in 
software test tasks) 

- 16 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
22. (1 pt) How does setting a random seed value help improve 
reproducibility in LLM outputs?
a. By setting a lower seed value, the temperature setting is 
automatically increased, which narrows the probability distribution
b. By setting a higher seed value, more seeds are allowed to be used, 
which will promote larger output sets from the LLM, which can then 
be used to extract consistent data, which improves reproducibility
c. By setting a variable seed value, the random sequence values are 
increased, which results in a larger set of data, which is easier to 
recreate
d. By setting a seed value, the random number generator has the same 
starting point, which will ensure the same pseudo-random sequence 
is used, which improves reproducibility
 
D is correct. The seed value is used for the random number generator. 
If it always starts from the same seed value, it is more likely to use 
the same pseudo-sequence, which will improve the reproducibility of 
the outputs. (GenAI-3.1.4 (K1) Recall mitigation techniques for non-
deterministic behavior of LLMs) 

- 17 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
23. (1 pt) If you have a GenAI tool that is processing sensitive 
customer data, what must you ensure?
a. It cannot store the data in an unencrypted form because it will be 
readable by anyone
b. It cannot store the data where it might be accessed by an 
unauthorized user, including another GenAI tool
c. It cannot modify and then restore the data because it will be 
incorrect and might be misleading for other users
d. It cannot access any sensitive data for any use
 
B is correct. Presumably, it’s accessing the data because it needs to, 
but the risk is that it might store it somewhere that it could be accessed 
by another GenAI tool. (GenAI-3.2.1 (K2) Explain key data privacy and 
security risks associated with using generative AI in software testing) 

- 18 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
24.  (1 pt) You’ve been working on an application that processes 
employee leave requests. The data you are using contains the 
birth date of the employee, but you have replaced all the birth 
dates with a default date of 1/1/89. You are using GenAI within 
your company’s databases to build new test data. You have now 
discovered that the test data contains birthdates again, and 
they are the real dates. This is an example of what type of data 
privacy issue?
a. Lack of control over data usage
b. Vulnerability to security attacks
c. Evidence of a malicious introduction of false data
d. Unintentional data exposure 
 
D is correct. This is an unintentional exposure of private data – in this 
case, the birthdates of the employees. A is not correct because the 
control is still within the company, but there is clearly access to some of 
the HR data. C and D are not correct because there’s no indication that 
this was malicious. (GenAI-3.2.2 (K2) Give examples of data privacy and 
vulnerabilities in using Generative AI in software testing) 
25.  (1 pt) What type of attack vector is being used when the results 
of AI-generated data are rated incorrectly, intentionally?
a. Data exfiltration
b. Request manipulation
c. Data poisoning
d. Malicious code generation
 
C is correct. This is an example of data poisoning. (GenAI-3.2.2 (K2) Give 
examples of data privacy and vulnerabilities in using Generative AI in 
software testing) 

- 19 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
26. (1 pt) What is the purpose of data anonymization?
a. To only use and process the data that is legally permitted and use 
only the smallest amount needed
b. To mask or replace any private information with non-identifiable 
data
c. To implement strong encryption and strictly control data access
d. To ensure everyone is trained in the proper handling of data and is 
minimizing access
 
B is correct. (GenAI-3.2.3 (K2) Summarize mitigation strategies to 
protect data privacy and enhance security in Generative AI for software 
testing) 
27. (1 pt) Which of the following GenAI activities takes about as 
much power as charging a smartphone?
a. Generating a letter to your bank
b. Creating “business” penguin pictures for a presentation
c. Creating only one penguin image
d. Generating a financial year summary report
 
C is correct. Creating just one image uses about the same power as 
charging a cell phone. (GenAI-3.3.1 (K2) Explain the impact of task 
characteristics and model usage on the energy consumption of 
Generative AI in software testing) 

- 20 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
28. (1 pt) Which of the following establishes a legal framework 
addressing AI risks and classifying applications by risk level?
a. ISO/IEC 42001:2023
b. ISO/IEC 23053:2022
c. EU AI Act
d. NIST AI Risk Management Framework
 
C is correct. D, which sounds right, concentrates on managing the risk, 
focusing on fairness, transparency, and security, so it is not the correct 
answer. (GenAI-3.4.1 (K1) Recall examples of AI regulations, standards, 
and best practice frameworks relevant to Generative AI in software 
testing) 
29. (1 pt) Which part of the architecture in an LLM-powered test 
infrastructure is responsible for integrating multiple data 
sources?
a. The front-end
b. The LLM itself
c. The back-end
d. The data controller
 
C is correct. The back-end integrates multiple data sources. (GenAI-4.1.1 
(K2) Explain key architectural components and concepts of LLM-
powered test infrastructure) 

- 21 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
30. (1 pt) What are the two steps in RAG processing?
a. Input / Retrieval
b. Processing / Output
c. Access / Processing
d. Retrieval / Generation
 
D is correct. (GenAI-4.1.2 (K2) Summarize Retrieval-Augmented 
Generation) 
31. (1 pt) What does “orchestration” mean regarding LLM-powered 
agents?
a. It is when several agents work together in a coordinated manner to 
more efficiently solve complex problems
b. It is when more than three LLM-powered agents work independently 
to generate outputs that are then reviewed by another agent for 
accuracy and post-processing
c. It is when RAG is an integral part of an LLM-powered test 
infrastructure
d. It is a term for background processing that uses a combination of 
autonomous and semi-autonomous agents
 
A is correct. B, C, and D are fictional. (GenAI-4.1.3 (K2) Explain the role 
and application of LLM-powered agents in automating test processes) 

- 22 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
32. (1 pt) How can overfitting compromise your model during fine-
tuning?
a. It can make the LLM too generalized to be applicable and efficient
b. It can introduce hallucinations and biases
c. It can make the model unable or inaccurate when processing data 
that is new to it
d. It can create a lack of transparency regarding LLM decision-making
 
C is correct. Overfitting is when the model has become too specific and 
is unable to deal with data that is not within what it already knows. 
(GenAI-4.2.1 (K2) Explain the fine-tuning of language models for specific 
test tasks) 
33.  (1 pt) Which of the following LLM deployment types is most 
concerned with data privacy?
a. Chatbots
b. Commercial testing tools with AI components
c. In-house developed commercial test tools with AI components
d. Data privacy is a critical concern for all of these deployment types
 
D is correct. It depends more on the data being handled than the 
process that is handling it, so potentially any of these could be most 
critical. (GenAI-4.2.2 (K2) Explain LLMOps and its role in deploying and 
managing LLMs for test tasks) 

- 23 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
34.  (1 pt) How is the risk of using copyrighted data without proper 
authorization categorized when using shadow AI?
a. Information security weakness
b. Data privacy weakness
c. Compliance issues
d. Vague intellectual property
 
D is correct. This is an issue because these tools may have unclear 
licensing agreements and may use copyright data without proper 
authorization. (GenAI-5.1.1 (K1) Recall the risks of shadow AI) 
35.  (1 pt) Why is high-quality input data important when 
implementing an LLM-powered testing approach?
a. It will be faster with good data that produces fewer errors
b. It will produce reliable results
c. It will allow the largest possible data set to be built
d. It will ensure access is protected and limited to only the correct users
 
B is correct. (GenAI-5.1.2 (K2) Explain the key aspects to consider when 
defining a Generative AI strategy for software testing) 

- 24 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
36.  (1 pt) You are working to convince your manager that a GenAI 
tool would be helpful in generating test reports. One of his 
issues is that he feels he could hire interns to write the test 
reports, and that would be faster than incorporating a new 
tool. You are sure that it will be able to write the reports faster 
and more accurately, freeing critical testing time. 
 
What is an important capability of the LLM that you should 
evaluate to be sure it will prove you right?
a. Model performance
b. Fine-tuning potential
c. Direct cost
d. Community and support
 
A is correct. You need to be sure the model will perform efficiently and 
accurately in the report generation tasks. (GenAI-5.1.3 (K2) Summarize 
key criteria for selecting LLMs/SLMs for software test tasks in a given 
context) 
37.  (1 pt) What is the first key phase when adopting GenAI into the 
test organization?
a. Discovery
b. Initiation and Training
c. Usage Definition
d. Exploitation and Iteration
 
A is correct. (GenAI-5.1.4 (K1) Recall key phases in the adoption of 
Generative AI in a test organization) 

- 25 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
38.  (1 pt) Why does a tester need to understand “prompt 
engineering” in order to work effectively with GenAI?
a. Because they will have a better grasp of the internal layers of the 
neural network
b. Because they need to understand what user prompts will need to be 
tested and the relative risk of each
c. Because they will be asked to generate new user prompts based on 
the AI-designed UI
d. Because they will need to design and refine the input prompts to 
guide the LLM
 
D is correct. (GenAI-5.2.1 (K2) Explain the essential skills and knowledge 
areas required for testers to work effectively with generative AI in test 
processes) 
39.  (1 pt) When conducting GenAI training meetings with the 
testing team, what is an important learning method?
a. Discussing challenges and their resolutions
b. Highlighting erroneous prompts used within the team
c. Processing AI outputs to better analyze manual testing gaps
d. Promoting the use of AI methods and nominating an “AI champion of 
the week”
 
A is correct. B, C and D might also be informative, but one of the key 
methods highlighted in the syllabus is to discuss challenges as a team. 
(GenAI-5.2.2 (K1) Recall strategies for cultivating AI skills within test 
teams to support the adoption of Generative AI in test activities) 

- 26 -
Copyright ASTQB,  
All Rights Reserved
ISTQB Testing with Generative AI v1.0  Sample Exam Answers
40.  (1 pt) Who is usually responsible for ensuring that test teams 
maintain both traditional testing competencies and AI literacy?
a. Each tester
b. The senior testers
c. The test manager
d. The AI master
 
C is correct. This is usually the role of the test manager to be sure that 
the team as a whole has these capabilities. Individuals are responsible 
for their own capabilities and ensuring they are staying current with 
the industry changes. (GenAI-5.2.3 (K1) Recognize how test processes 
and responsibilities shift within a test organization when adopting 
Generative AI for testing) 